.\" @(#)ircd.8 2.0 22 April 2004
.\" $Id: ircd.8 6 2005-09-10 01:02:21Z nenolod $
.TH IRCD 8 "ircd-ratbox 22 April 2004
.SH NAME
ircd \- The Internet Relay Chat Program Server 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.IP \fBircd\fP
[-dlinefile filename] [-configfile filename] [-klinefile filename]
[-logfile filename] [-pidfile filename] [-resvfile filename]
[-xlinefile filename] [-conftest] [-foreground] [-version]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fIircd\fP is the server (daemon) program for the Internet Relay Chat
Program.  The \fIircd\fP is a server in that its function is to "serve"
the client program \fIirc(1)\fP with messages and commands.  All commands
and user messages are passed directly to the \fIircd\fP for processing
and relaying to other ircd sites.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-dlinefile filename
Specifies the D-line file to be used.  This file is used for both reading
D-lines at startup, and writing to while \fIircd\fP is running.
.TP
.B \-configfile filename
Specifies the ircd.conf file to be used for this ircdaemon. The option
is used to override the default ircd.conf given at compile time.
.TP
.B \-klinefile filename
Specifies the K-line file to be used.  This file is used for both reading
K-lines at startup, and writing to while \fIircd\fP is running.
.TP
.B \-logfile filename
Specifies an alternative logfile to be used than that specified in config.h
.TP
.B \-pidfile filename
Specifies the ircd.pid used. The option is used to override the default
ircd.pid given at compile time.
.TP
.B \-resvfile filename
Specifies the resv.conf file to be used for this ircdaemon. The option
is used to override the default resv.conf given at compile time.
.TP
.B \-xlinefile filename
Specifies the xline.conf file to be used for this ircdaemon. The option
is used to override the default xline.conf given at compile time.
.TP
.B \-conftest
Makes \fIircd\fP check the ircd.conf for errors
.TP
.B \-foreground
Makes \fIircd\fP run in the foreground
.TP
.B \-version
Makes \fIircd\fP print its version, and exit.
.SH USAGE
If you plan to connect your \fIircd\fP server to an existing Irc-Network,
you will need to alter your local IRC configuration file (typically named
"ircd.conf") so that it will accept and make connections to other \fIircd\fP
servers.  This file contains the hostnames, Network Addresses, and sometimes
passwords for connections to other ircds around the world.  Because 
description of the actual file format of the "ircd.conf" file is beyond the
scope of this document, please refer to the file INSTALL in the IRC source
files documentation directory.
.LP
.SH BOOTING THE SERVER
The \fIircd\fP server can be started as part of the
Unix boot procedure or just by placing the server into Unix Background.
Keep in mind that if it is \fBnot\fP part of your Unix's boot-up procedure 
then you will have to manually start the \fIircd\fP server each time your
Unix is rebooted.  This means if your Unix is prone to crashing
or going for for repairs a lot it would make sense to start the \fIircd\fP
server as part of your UNIX bootup procedure.  
.SH EXAMPLE
.RS
.nf
tolsun% \fBbin/ircd\fP
.fi
.RE
.LP
Places \fIircd\fP into Unix background and starts up the server for use.
Note:  You do not have to add the "&" to this command, the program will
automatically detach itself from tty.
.RS
.nf
leguin% \fBbin/ircd -foreground\fP
.fi
.RE
.LP
Runs ircd in the foreground.
.RS
.nf
.SH COPYRIGHT
(c) 1988,1989 University of Oulu, Computing Center, Finland,
.LP
(c) 1988,1989 Department of Information Processing Science,
University of Oulu, Finland
.LP
(c) 1988,1989,1990,1991 Jarkko Oikarinen
.LP
(c) 1997,1998,1999,2000,2001 The IRCD-Hybrid project.
.LP
For full COPYRIGHT see LICENSE file with IRC package.
.LP
.RE
.SH FILES
 "ircd.conf"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ircd.conf(5)
.SH BUGS
None... ;-) if somebody finds one, please inform author
.SH AUTHOR
irc2.8 and earlier: Jarkko Oikarinen, currently jto@tolsun.oulu.fi.
.LP
ircd-hybrid-7: IRCD-Hybrid Project, ircd-hybrid@the-project.org.
.LP
manual page written by Jeff Trim, jtrim@orion.cair.du.edu,
later modified by jto@tolsun.oulu.fi.
.LP
modified for ircd-hybrid-7 by Edward Brocklesby, ejb@klamath.uucp.leguin.org.uk.
.LP
updated by W. Campbell, wcampbel@botbay.net
